NORTH AMERICAN ASSOCIATION OF CENTRAL CANCER REGISTRIES, INC. (NAACCR)

ARTICLE I. Scope and Purpose

The North American Association of Central Cancer Registries, Inc. (NAACCR), the “Association,” is a professional organization that develops and promotes uniform data standards for cancer registration; provides education and training; certifies population-based registries; aggregates and publishes data from central cancer registries; and promotes the use of cancer surveillance data and systems for cancer control and epidemiologic research, public health programs, and patient care to reduce the burden of cancer in North America.

ARTICLE II. Membership

Section 1. Classification of Membership

The four classes of membership shall be:

    Full: Full member organizations are central registries, which are, or have the potential to become, population-based registries.
    Individual: Individual members are those persons who are not currently working in a member organization who have demonstrated career and professional commitments and interests that are consistent with or complementary to those of NAACCR. Candidates for Individual Membership must be able to demonstrate involvement or activity in one or more of the following areas: cancer epidemiology, patient care, cancer control, cancer registration, professional education, research, and biostatistics. Each candidate must make a commitment to support NAACCR through active participation in the activities of the Association. Individual members shall be entitled to participate and vote as a member of committees, subcommittees or work groups. Individual members may chair subcommittees or work groups. Individual members may not chair a committee, vote on matters brought before the Membership at the Annual Meeting, nor vote for or hold an elected position in the Association.
    Sponsoring: Sponsoring member organizations are national professional or national governmental organizations primarily involved in any of the following areas: cancer epidemiology, patient care, cancer control, cancer registration, professional education, research, or biostatistics. Each sponsoring member organization shall be entitled to one vote on each matter submitted to membership vote. No action taken by the Association shall be construed as committing any sponsoring member organization to a prescribed course of action. Each sponsoring member organization may designate one or more representatives from such organization to participate in the Association’s affairs on behalf of such organization. Representatives of sponsoring member organizations may be a member of and chair a committee. Only one representative of a sponsoring member organization shall be entitled to cast that organization’s vote.
    Sustaining: Sustaining member organizations are organizations interested in promoting the purposes of the Association. No action taken by the Association shall be construed as committing any sustaining member organization to a prescribed course of action. Each sustaining member organization may designate one or more representatives from such organization to participate in the Association’s affairs on behalf of such organization. Sustaining member organizations shall not be entitled to vote, and their representatives shall not be entitled to hold office. Representatives from sustaining member organizations may be a member of and chair a committee.

Section 2. Application for Membership

Application for membership shall be submitted in a manner prescribed by the Board of Directors.

Section 3. Resignation

Any member may resign by submitting a resignation in writing to the Executive Director.

Section 4. Application for Continuing Membership

Each member shall submit an application for continuing membership every three years. This application for continuing membership shall be submitted in a manner prescribed by the Board of Directors.